2007-03-21
==========

dan: phillip's idea

categorize games. abstract data games.

keaton writes auto GUIs, characterize it.

keatonable - GUIable extra field to add to the columns on the game analysis page.

should we have a human and write a text file, or have a human edit the C?

do you have for every game is there a game.xml? or do you have keaton.xml, and any games that are keatonable are list. if i make a new category i just make a new file.,

essentially file per category, or file per game?

yanpei vs. david talking about using chopsticks

garcia's wife makes scrambled egs with chopsticks and makes better eggs than dan who uses a spatula. dan has a emily post crisis.

debate goes on...

so per game. is the vote.

now what are the categories? categories: keatonable, type of game (dartboard or rearranger), winby, win condition (n in a row, capture blocking, connection, points)

-   pattern
    -   n in a row
    -   mask
        -   connection

<!-- -->

-   capture
    -   all
    -   key piece
    -   number

<!-- -->

-   last move (nim-ish)
    -   partisan
    -   impartial

<!-- -->

-   blocking

<!-- -->

-   points

<!-- -->

-   race

[see\_game\_categories.md](see_game_categories.md "wikilink")

CALDAY!!! three big things poster, room, shirts, laptops poster: jerry flyer: daniel shirts: katrina get all sizes of people laptops: rooms:

diana: shift tic tac toe remoteness problems

keaton: demo of game with thickness of arrows for the fastest lose. conclusion: thicker arrows (red or green) mean the fastest (win or lose)

david: previous history of the game
