2009-09-14
==========

-   Someone should look into what the most popular (abstract strategy) games in the world are.

<!-- -->

-   Game Theory Slides:
    -   Checkers solved in 2007 after a 19-year project!
    -   The Turk- chess-playing machine hoax.
    -   Claude Shannon: "Father of Information Theory"
    -   Deep Blue vs Garry Kasparov (Deep Blue wins!)
    -   Weakly Solving a Game(Checkers)
        -   Tier solve from bottom
        -   Master: Main Line from top
        -   Workers: positions to search
    -   Future: board games are exponential, and so has been the progress of computers!

<!-- -->

-   Web:
    -   Active games on main page should be working
    -   Puzzles should flush out- a page for every puzzle.
        -   Play above, read about later.

<!-- -->

-   Oskar's Cube:
    -   Idea is to go through entire maze.
    -   Fairly easy to generate random puzzle longer than original.
    -   Can find optimal path for particular type of puzzle: "E" and "S"-like.
    -   Dan: if you're going to make a puzzle, what's a fun puzzle? Example:
        -   Long enough to be interesting.
        -   Can go wrong way at start.
    -   A visualization/picture of the solved paths is wanted (of original).
    -   Can we design a "perfect" puzzle- most fun? Longest chain?
        -   Dead ends have longer paths?
        -   Branches on the dead end branches?
    -   Can we quantify this?
        -   Length.
        -   1.  of false leads.
        -   Placement of beginning/end.
        -   "bushiness" factor.
        -   Similar going down / back up.
        -   % of visitalle lattice points
        -   Vis: Graph x2, stats
        -   Can we go from software path to actual faces we can build?

