Look\_HERE
==========

I apologize for the overly vague/attention grabbing title+link on the main page but I felt that it was necessary as that was reason that I created this page.

I do not have very much time these days to use the computer and every once in a while I like to come back and checkup on the group to see how its doing. I read the Database Verification page and added some questions that I had to the bottom. The problem is: that is such a remote page that I think that people didnt even realize that I added that section. I realize that it is currently summer (meaning probably noone is even going to read this for some time) but I had an idea. What if we added a section to the sidebar or main page or in some prominent place wherever you deem fit which lists the top N recently changed pages? Honestly, who clicks on the "Recent changes" link?

For example:

-   [Look\_HERE.md](Look_HERE.md "wikilink") Edited by Ofer on July 27
-   [Database\_Verification\_Writeup\_Spring\_2011.md](Database_Verification_Writeup_Spring_2011.md "wikilink") Edited by Ofer on June 10
-   etc

One more idea: I remember one session where a Gamescrafters Alum came back and looked at what we had done and was like: "Whoaaaaaaaaaaaa". Although I cant really come back to the room as much as I would like, I would still like that same "Whoaaaa" experience. I know you guys do the whole end of semester showcase thing for Dan, but what about the rest of us? For an example from my day, one thing that I thought was really cool: the dots and boxes pen (that you played a real game on paper and gamesman 'watched'). I realize that you cant really distribute the pen on the internet, but a cool video capturing the demonstration would have been awesome. Then you could have a page on the Gamescrafters sites with a demo of all the projects online to share with everyone.

One last thing: I remember once upon a time that Dan used to go on and on and Tcl stipple patterns, 'goldifying' games, and not understanding that all red means lose. We then had the introduction of Gamesman++, then Gamesman+-, then GamesmanWeb, then GamesmanPuzzle (in Python), then GamesmanScheme, GamesmanJava. I.e. I'm pretty sure that by now we've got a version of Gamesman in pretty much every language that the school teaches. This is only a small example about the architectures themselves, but there are many more projects that follow suit: a lot of cool ideas have been worked on at Gamescrafters and then just wither away. A prime example of that being the aformentioned pen. More examples include: the interestingness analyzer, how to make an "interesting" AI opponent?, bit perfect db, and so on. Now, I realize that a lot of the reason is the transition away from Gamesman Classic but the problem in my view is slightly larger: we need a focused direction. What I mean is that we have a lot of effort being spread out into many different areas/projects/apis/gamesman clients/gamesman games. I feel that if we took even one game (say Connect-4 because it is a popular, completely solved game) and put our effort into that one area, we could get a lot further. What I want to see is a newspaper article entitled "Gamescrafters leads the way in (blah blah)". We have so many different projects that could take that title but not enough development on them. We have the talent, we just need to focus it.
